Azure Functions public preview (#4879)
Particular/docs.particular.net: previews/azure-functions-service-bus.md

Alternatively, the endpoint name can be passed in manually:

snippet: alternative-endpoint-setup

### Azure Function definition

snippet: function-definition

## Configuration

### Custom diagnostics

snippet: custom-diagnostics

## Known constraints and limitations

When using Azure Functions with Azure Service Bus (ASB) the following points must be taken into consideration:

- There is no support for the `SendsAtomicWithReceive` [transport transaction mode](/transports/transactions.md#transactions-transport-transaction-sends-atomic-with-receive).
- The Configuration API exposes NServiceBus transport configuration options via the `configuration.Transport` method to allow customization; however, not all of the options will be applicable to execution within Azure Functions. 

## Preparing the Azure Service Bus namespace

Function endpoints cannot create their own queues or other infrastructure in the Azure Service Bus namespace.

Use the [`asb-transport` command line (CLI) tool](/transports/azure-service-bus/operational-scripting.md) to provision the entities in the namespace for the Function endpoint.

### Creating the endpoint queue

```
asb-transport endpoint create 
```

> WARN: When not using the `asb-tranport` command line tool to create the queue it is recommended the `MaxDeliveryCount` be set to the maximum value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARN: When not using the `asb-tranport` command-line tool to create the queue, it is recommended to set the `MaxDeliveryCount` setting to the maximum value.
```

---
title: Azure Functions with Azure Service Bus
component: ASBFunctions
summary: Azure Functions Preview
related:
 - samples/previews/azure-functions
reviewed: 2020-06-18
---

Host NServiceBus endpoints with [Azure Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/).

## Basic Usage

### Endpoint configuration

snippet: endpoint-configuration

> The endpoint is automatically configured with the endpoint name, the transport connection string, and the logger passed into the function using a static factory method provided by `ServiceBusTriggeredEndpointConfiguration.FromAttributes` method.

Reviewer: logging is not configured via the FromAttributes method?

```suggestion
The endpoint is automatically configured with the endpoint name and the transport connection string based on the values defined in the `[ServiceBusTrigger]` attribute using the `ServiceBusTriggeredEndpointConfiguration.FromAttributes` method.
```

Alternatively, the endpoint name can be passed in manually:

snippet: alternative-endpoint-setup

### Azure Function definition

snippet: function-definition

## Configuration

## License

> To provide a license for the endpoints hosted as Azure Functions, the environment varialbe (Function setting) `NSERVICEBUS_LICENSE` should be used contain license as escaped text.

Reviewer: the text doesn't have to be escaped unless you're storing it in JSON I think?

```suggestion
The license can be provided via the `NSERVICEBUS_LICENSE` environment variable which can be set via the Function settings in the Azure Portal.
```

> For local development, `local.settings.json` can be used. In Azure, specify a Function setting using environment variable as the key.

Reviewer: for local development, the regular licensing methods would probably work better as you don't have to escape the whole string.

Author: Someone who's working with Functions might find it simpler to have the environment set up in a way their other environments work.

include: license-file-local-setting-file

### Custom diagnostics

snippet: custom-diagnostics

## Known constraints and limitations

When using Azure Functions with Azure Service Bus (ASB) the following points must be taken into consideration:

- There is no support for the `SendsAtomicWithReceive` [transport transaction mode](/transports/transactions.md#transactions-transport-transaction-sends-atomic-with-receive).
- The Configuration API exposes NServiceBus transport configuration options via the `configuration.Transport` method to allow customization; however, not all of the options will be applicable to execution within Azure Functions. 

## Preparing the Azure Service Bus namespace

Function endpoints cannot create their own queues or other infrastructure in the Azure Service Bus namespace.

Use the [`asb-transport` command line (CLI) tool](/transports/azure-service-bus/operational-scripting.md) to provision the entities in the namespace for the Function endpoint.

### Creating the endpoint queue

```
asb-transport endpoint create 

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

See the [full documentation](/transports/azure-service-bus/operational-scripting.md#operational-scripting-asb-transport-endpoint-create) for the `asb-transport endpoint create` command for more details.
```

> asb-transport endpoint create 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
asb-transport endpoint create <queue name>
```

WARN: When not using the `asb-tranport` command-line tool to create the queue, it is recommended to set the `MaxDeliveryCount` setting to the maximum value.

### Subscribing to events

```

> asb-transport endpoint subscribe name eventtype

Reviewer: ```suggestion
asb-transport endpoint subscribe <queue name> <eventtype>
```

is this the queue name which has to be defined?

```

> For full documentation see the [asb-transport endpoint subscribe]()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For full documentation see the [asb-transport endpoint subscribe](/transports/azure-service-bus/operational-scripting.md)
```

should that also be added to the command above?

---
title: Azure Functions with Azure Service Bus
component: ASBFunctions
summary: Azure Functions Preview
related:
 - samples/previews/azure-functions
reviewed: 2020-06-18
---

Host NServiceBus endpoints with [Azure Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/).

## Basic Usage

### Endpoint configuration

snippet: endpoint-configuration

The endpoint is automatically configured with the endpoint name and the transport connection string based on the values defined in the `[ServiceBusTrigger]` attribute using the `ServiceBusTriggeredEndpointConfiguration.FromAttributes` method.

Alternatively, the endpoint name can be passed in manually:

snippet: alternative-endpoint-setup

### Azure Function definition

snippet: function-definition

## Configuration

## License

The license can be provided via the `NSERVICEBUS_LICENSE` environment variable which can be set via the Function settings in the Azure Portal.
For local development, `local.settings.json` can be used. In Azure, specify a Function setting using environment variable as the key.

include: license-file-local-setting-file

### Custom diagnostics

> snippet: enable-diagnostics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NServiceBus startup diagnostics](nservicebus/hosting/startup-diagnostics.md) are disabled by default when using Azure Functions. Diagnostics can be written to the logs via the following snippet:

snippet: enable-diagnostics
```

Author: Done in https://github.com/Particular/docs.particular.net/commit/57781726dbfef65b0f43bccb926692d130b3321b along with ASB ASQ version.

---
title: Azure Functions with Azure Service Bus
component: ASBFunctions

> summary: Azure Functions Preview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Hosting NServiceBus endpoints with Azure Functions and Azure Service Bus triggers.
```

Author: > Hosting NServiceBus endpoints with Azure Functions and Azure Service Bus triggers.

When I read this I think of "hosting NServiceBus endpoints using technology X and Y" where in reality the hosting is done with X and Y is different than hosting aspect. What about the following?

> Hosting NServiceBus endpoints with Service Bus triggered Azure Functions.

Author: I'll update both documents with the summary I've proposed. In case you think that's not enough, let's issue a follow-up PR for docs and clean it up. Thank you.

related:
 - samples/previews/azure-functions
reviewed: 2020-07-06
---

> Host NServiceBus endpoints with [Azure Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Host NServiceBus endpoints with [Azure Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/) and [Azure Service Bus](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/service-bus/) triggers.
```

(maybe `bindings` instead of `triggers`?)

## Basic Usage

### Endpoint configuration

snippet: endpoint-configuration

The endpoint is automatically configured with the endpoint name and the transport connection string based on the values defined in the `[ServiceBusTrigger]` attribute using the `ServiceBusTriggeredEndpointConfiguration.FromAttributes` method.

Alternatively, the endpoint name can be passed in manually:

snippet: alternative-endpoint-setup

### Azure Function definition

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Pass the incoming message to the NServiceBus endpoint:

```

snippet: function-definition

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

NServiceBus can directly log into the Azure Functions logging infrastructure by passing the `ILogger` instance from the function parameters to the endpoint's `Process` method.

```

## Configuration

> ## License

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### License
```

The license can be provided via the `NSERVICEBUS_LICENSE` environment variable which can be set via the Function settings in the Azure Portal.

> For local development, `local.settings.json` can be used. In Azure, specify a Function setting using environment variable as the key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For local development, `local.settings.json` can be used.
```

that part feels redundant given the first sentence?

Also, given local development is free now, is it still worth to document the local.settings.json file approach?

Author: > that part feels redundant given the first sentence?

Don't quite agree. In Azure there's still an option of `settings.json` file. The intent was to point out that a file approach is not necessary.

> Also, given local development is free now, is it still worth to document the local.settings.json file approach?

I'm not sure what do you mean by this. The cost of local development was never a consideration. Could you elaborate?
